Exercise. Precedence of operators in Java
exercise objective. Create a program to
practice the precedence of operators in
Java, at the end we should observe the
following. Create a new project, create
the PrecedenceOfOperators project. We
open NetBeans we click on file new
project, we click on java, java
application and click on next. The
project name is PrecedenceOfOperators
the project location is courses, Java
Fundamentals, lesson03 and click on
finish, so the project has the desired
structure. As a next step we create the
PrecedenceOfOperatorsTest.java
class, so we right-click on the project
precedence of operators we click on new
and after that click Java Class. The
class name is precedence of operators
test remember to use the lowercase and
uppercase letters as shown in the class
as Java is sensible to uppercase and
lowercase letters. The package name is
operators we can see the full path of
this class and we click on finish. This
is the result of the create a Java class.
We will substitute the code with the
following. If you have any problem
coding this class, you can click on the
name of this class to download the code
but remember first try to code every
line that we give you. We write package
operators public class the name of the
class is PrecedenceOfOperatorsTest open
curly braces we define the main method
we write to the console first example
precedence of operators. We define a
first variable called x with value of 5
of type int, we define another variable
called y equals to 10 of type int.
And define the variable z and this
variable is equals to x but using the
pre increment operator, multiply by the variable y
but using the post decrement operator so
the result of this expression is z is
equal to 6 *10 so the value of z is
equal to 60. We print to the console the
value of variable x y and z. The variable
x is equal to 6 the variable y is equal
to 9 and the variable Z is equal to 60
in this case the variable y was spending
to decrease so when we are using again
this variable when logging to the
console the variable decrement so the
value is 9. Now we will see an example of
evaluation with this example we can see
the precedence of operators in Java in
this case the first operators that are
going to be evaluated are the
multiply and division operators these
operators have more (higher) priority in the
precedence of operators after these
operators we have for example the +
or - operator and we evaluate this
expression from left to right so as we
can see in the evaluation we have 4 +
5 * 6 / 3 and we can group
using the precedence of operators so
evaluating from left to right we will
use parentheses only to show you how the
precedence of operators works but as we
can see is not necessary to use
parentheses to apply the precedence of
operators it's only to show you how it
works so we have the expression 4 + 5
multiplied
by 6 divided by 3 and evaluating from left to right
again
the first operator that is executed is
5*6 so we have the result 4+(30/3) finally we have the result
4 +10 and the final result is 14 but
we can use parentheses to break
precedents of operators, so in this case we
can group (4+5) and this multiplied by the result
of (6/3) and in this case the
result is 9*2 and the
final result is 18 this result is using
int literals so the result is no float
but int. Another evolution example we can
use the same logic 1+2-3
*4/5 we are
grouping using the precedence operators
so evaluating from left to right we
first have 1+2-3*
4/5 and the first result
is 3 -12 / 5 and the final
result is 3 - 2 and the final result
is 1 so we are applying precedence
of operators to evaluate this expression
but if we use parentheses we can break
the precedence of operators so in this case
the evaluation is 3 - 3 *
0 so the first result is 3 - 0
and the final result is 3 the division
remember that only takes the in part is
not using any float type
another example we will use a string
type to check if it detects a string
the result turns into a string too. So in
this case the result is the
concatenation and prints 1 2 is not
12 because is not executing the addition
but is applying a concatenation so in
this case the result is 1 concatenated
by 2 because we have an string and Java
applies the string context but the
parentheses break this rule as it has
the highest priority when we are using
precedence of operators so in this case
we're using parentheses so the
evaluation of 1 + 2 is executed and
the final result prints 3 so then 3 is
concatenated but first the addition of 1
+ 2 is executed another example the
+ operator is associative to the left
in this case the operation is executed
first
and after that is concatenated so it
prints 3 abc, but if we change the order
we can see abc after that 1 + 2 but
in this case detects a string so
it prints abc and the addition is not
executed but a concatenation abc 1
concatenated by 2. So these are the
precedence of operators that we are
putting into practice. As a next step we
can run this project on the class
PrecedenceOfOperatorsTests.java
right click and Run File and this is
the result this is the same result as we
have examined but the recommendation
is that you check every result again so
you are sure that you are understanding
the precedence of operators in Java
exercise we have put into practice the
precedence of operators in Java for more
information about the operators in Java
you can use the following link